Let's also talk about continuous integration and continuous delivery pipeline.
So there's a new term called GitOps
and containers actually fit really well with this term GitOps.
A lot of people have heard about DevOps.
This course is about DevOps,
but GitOps is interesting because it is Git
as a single source of truth in a systems desired state.
Also you can have a GitOps diff that compares the desired state with the observed state.
So a really good example of that would be
a terraform based configuration management system,
where you're able to look at what's happening in production
and you're able to look at what's happening to development,
and you're able to see if there is a delta there
where some changes actually been mutated.
Another thing is that,
when you're thinking about GitOps is that
all the intended operations are committed inside of a pool request.
So you can see every single thing that's supposed to
happen all within this one piece of source code where
previously you didn't 100 percent
know what was happening when you deployed software somewhere.
It probably would work,
but what if someone underneath the hood actually changed
the way the operating system works or installing another package or something like that.
So GitOps really handle this idea of every single bit of
the state of your application and
your operating system are all packaged all within this pool request.
Another thing is that, all changes are observable,
they are verifiable, and they're
audited because you have the ability to look at them in source control.
So really it's a powerful new pattern that's a cloud native pattern that did not
exist before containers were able to be mixed together with your source code.
So a few takeaways from GitOps are that,
you have this concept of separation of concerns.
So you don't have to really worry that
one pipeline is going to be for your infrastructure and other ones for source code.
They're all embedded together.
Another one is that, you can use any continuous integration or Git server with GitOps.
So you don't have to have some specialized Microsoft server
or specialized third party server.
It actually works with anything.
Finally, you can think of a GitOps takeaway as events or really an integration step.
So as soon as you check in code to master,
or you check in code emerged master to production,
an event occurs and then that event triggers a bunch of operations.
So if we look at this slide here,
you can see a developer could do a commit to a project repo,
automatically this event triggers and then
the Jenkins build server or whatever build server,
it will push an image to Docker,
but it also push updates to a server-less architecture like let's say AWS Lambda.
Then it goes through and there's Docker registry will then go
and update a cluster with a new image.
Then at the same time,
both the image itself is updated and also the software that runs on the image.
So it's basically completely deployed at the same time.
You don't have to separately do
an infrastructure build and separately do a software development build.
So it's an incredibly powerful workflow that is
really only available by using containers and using things like Kubernetes